# Powerline-Communication-Anomaly-Detection

This thesis serves as a general practical and theoretical reference on Power-Line Communication (PLC) systems. It serves with a comprehensive and detailed presentation and analysis on the current up-to-date powerline communication standards, technologies, Machine Learning Algorithms and associated development in PLC communication systems. The development in this subject has been relatively scarce, and information to gather datasets were very limited. Therefore, this research represents a collective information from different research papers and scientific patents. 


Power line communication is an emerging technology in the field of communications that aims to use Powerline as a medium to bi-directionally transfer data. The advantages related to this technology has been investigated and briefed in this research paper. Results and performance are presented based on the findings of the current dataset and ML algorithms. The research underlines the limitations and challenges that have been witnessed during implementation and testing. Other important factors with PLC data acquisition have been also briefly presented. Existing Powerline appliances High Frequency Noise and Modulation have been analyzed in order to find the best Machine Learning algorithm to define our problem. 
This paper is based on finding the best ML model based on PLC anomalies traffic patterns. Several tests are performed using various Machine Learning Algorithm models and the results have been documented to help assess future PLC researches and communication systems breakthroughs.  As an outcome of these patterns, the best model(s) are determined for all PLC signals. The thesis concludes with the best model should learn to recognize between N different appliances' Signal-To-Noise frequencies with the best performing accuracy; then be able to predict for new appliances’ SNR frequencies and other analogous signals residing in the powerline. This has many benefit PLC technology providers to harden their communication technology against various PLC disturbances of typical electric loads, or predict PLC network failures or likability to fail. 

With the current available high data transmission in PLC systems, a remarkable attention has been shifted to use PLC systems. It is considered to be a preferred choice over Ethernet or Wireless Home communication systems. In addition to the fact that Powerline wires and AC outlets have always been installed in each home. So the advantages are various. For instance, it can be a low-cost, reliable, secured and efficient option comparing to Ethernet or wireless hardware. PLC communication systems are a potential alternative to use Internet, home Automation, and electricity consumption by the customers. These advantages and more benefit both the consumers and energy providers.
